This project is part of FIWARE.

#IDAS: non functional test guidelines

The IDAS component is an implementation of the Backend Device Management GE. 
Its main usage is the Typical IoT use-case Scenario I: Common Simple Scenario of the overall FIWARE IoT architecture, available at https://forge.fiware.org/plugins/mediawiki/wiki/fiware/index.php/Internet_of_Things_(IoT)_Services_Enablement_Architecture#Typical_IoT_use-case_Scenarios_.28I.29:_Common_Simple_scenario


##Testing environment

For the testing environment, is needed: 

* A machine for the deployment of the GEri to be tested, IDAS Agent.
* A machine for with an Orion Context Broker instance (can be the same if there are enough resources). Docker version can be used.
* A machine for JMeter, the tool used to inject load and for simulating the client and collecting the results generated by IDAS.

##Test execution

###Preliminary setup

Once the HW necessary for the test described previosly at "Testing Environmment" chapter have been setup, the following preliminary steps need to be accomplished before to start the test process:
In order to do the installation of IDAS IoT Agent (Ultralight), the easiest way is to use the docker-compose file docker-compose.yml (see scripts folder). For this, is needed:

* docker installed and service up and running
* docker-compose installed

Then, in the folder where docker-compose.yml is located, execute this command:

`sudo docker-compose up -d`

This will create a docker with the IDAS Agent, and additional dockers for all its dependencies.

##Testing step by step

The test of IDAS must be done in two steps:

1. Script configuration:

Depending on the scenario to execute (stress, stability), number of threads, ramp-up and test duration must be configured. Host IP must be configured too.
For this purpose, the following User Defined variables in the Jmeter script (update.jmx) must be configured:

* HOST -> IP to the host where IDAS is deployed
* PORT -> Port where IDAS is listening (by default, 4041)
* THREADS -> Number of threads executing the script. In the stress test, it was configured to 200, and 100 in the stability case.

Furthermore, the test duration must be configured. It is recommended to use the planificator from the threads group. The duration for the stress tests was 40 minutes, and 4 hours in the stability case.

Finally, in order to get the results, the path to the results file must be configured in the Simple Data Writer from the script.

2. Script execution:

For executing the script, the following command must be typed in the jmeter bin folder:

`./jmeter.sh -n -t /path/to/script/update.jmx`

It´s recommended to execute the command in background and nohup mode:

`nohup ./jmeter.sh -n -t /path/to/script/update.jmx &`

It´s highly recommended to use a hardware resources monitoring tool, in order to measure things like memory and CPU usages, free memory, etc.

##Expected results

As output from the script, a .dat file (in csv format) is generated. This file can be used for plotting different kinds of charts, like threads number, response times, number of errores, responses per second, etc. A plotting tool (like gnuplot) is needed in order to do this.

Additionally, if a monitoring tool has been used, then different data from it is collected too. Depending on the monitoring tool, it can generate charts directly, or it can be used another tool for plotting the output from monitoring tool (for example, sar from systat library can be used for monitoring, and k-sar tool for plotting the sar output)


